# Terminology

### General Terminology

<table><thead><tr><th width="301">General Terminology</th><th>Definition</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Consensus</td><td>Consensus is a fundamental property of distributed systems where multiple entities must collectively agree on a single value, validate their states, and terminate the decision process - this cannot be guaranteed deterministically in asynchronous systems with arbitrary failures. (<a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.17627">source</a>)</td></tr><tr><td>Output (UTXO)</td><td>Single-use batch of Bitcoin that must meet a specific set of conditions in order to be spent.</td></tr><tr><td>Hierarchical Deterministic (HD) Wallets</td><td>Cryptographic wallets that generate an infinite number of keys arranged in a tree structure from a single master seed - typically represented as a mnemonic word sequence - where parent keys can derive child keys, which can derive their own child keys, and so on.</td></tr><tr><td>Invoice Address</td><td>A single-use token that identifies a Bitcoin transaction's target based on Hierarchical Deterministic Keys; used to prevent address <a href="https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Address_reuse">re-use</a> and to protect user privacy.</td></tr><tr><td>Partially Signed Bitcoin Transaction (PBST)</td><td>A Bitcoin standard introduced in <a href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0174.mediawiki">BIP 174</a> for transactions that are not yet fully signed, designed to improve the interoperability between different wallets, making it easier to conduct complex transactions that require multiple signatures.</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-Signed Transaction Hash (Payment Preimage)</td><td>A cryptographic mechanism using hash preimage revelation to prove payment authorization, originally from Lightning Network and adapted for Bitcoin with Taproot signatures to enable secure conditional rollback transactions.</td></tr></tbody></table>

<table><thead><tr><th width="302">Kaon's Terminology</th><th>Definition</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Delegated Proof of Stake (dPoS)</td><td>Incentivize users to confirm network data and ensure security through a process of collateral staking with an additional use of witnesses (formally called delegates).</td></tr><tr><td>Delegate Stakes</td><td>A transaction with specific lock script used in Kaon's dPoS to give a user an ability to participate in the chain's management, can be combined or delegated.</td></tr><tr><td>Masternode</td><td>Node connected to a wallet of Stakeholder</td></tr><tr><td>Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT) Consensus</td><td>Non-optimistic provably safe proof-of-stake binary consensus augmented to offer a proof of settlement and distributed key generation (DKG) through deterministic process where its participants take turns round-robin fashion, its consistency and liveness assuming a number of Byzantine corruptions did not exceeded 1/2, and it has the ability to converge back to safety once synchrony is restored.</td></tr><tr><td>Treshold Signature Scheme (TSS)</td><td>A method to collectively produce signature where every participant holds only a fragment of a private key, in Kaon's case utilizing Schnorr signature, Shamir Secret Sharing, Simple Coins as a source of deterministic random and Lagrange interpolation.</td></tr><tr><td>Safe Multiparty Computation (sMPC)</td><td>Secure multiparty computation (MPC / SMPC) is a cryptographic protocol that distributes a computation across multiple parties (in Kaon’s case secret message sequences or SMSs) where no individual party can see the other parties’ data.</td></tr><tr><td>Epoch</td><td>Iteration of 80 blocks 13.(3) minutes long with a strict lifecircle, where election of validators for the next iteration is happened, allowing the BFT consensus to have non-fixed pool of participants in a determenistic manner.</td></tr><tr><td>sMPC Group</td><td>A set of participants determined by the BFT consensus for the current epoch from the approved set of validators of the current epoch as determined by dPoS consensus.</td></tr><tr><td>Witness Group</td><td>sMPC Group with a specific role to approve locked BTCs to be sent or to mark it as corrupt.</td></tr><tr><td>Validator Group</td><td>sMPC Group with a specific role to maintain lock over received BTCs and to send it, which could be executed only after the related Witness Group approval.</td></tr><tr><td>Peg In</td><td>Process of locking BTC in Bitcoin Network to get mirrored BTCs or to perform extended logic.</td></tr><tr><td>Peg Out</td><td>Process of sending BTC out of Kaon Network's locking mechanic to a user within the Bitcoin Network.</td></tr><tr><td>Sweeping</td><td>Process of delegating BTC locks maintained by Validator and Witness Groups of the previous Epoch to sMPC Groups of the current Epoch.</td></tr><tr><td>Slashing</td><td>Execution of validator or group of validators with confiscation of their stakes in case of detected and proven malicious activities, maintained by Kaon's Consensus Layer.</td></tr><tr><td>Mirrored Transaction</td><td>Transactions that move in either direction - from Bitcoin to Kaon's Consensus Layer or vice versa - when specific instructions are included in the transaction outputs.</td></tr><tr><td>Mirrored BTC</td><td>Bitcoin representation in Kaon's Consensus Layer produced by Mirrored Transaction through the Peg In process.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Global Components

<table><thead><tr><th width="307">Component</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Consensus Layer</td><td>L1 system that provides BFT by randomly selecting and rotating participants (validators) that help reach consensus and solve incidents.</td></tr><tr><td>Node Interface</td><td>Wraps original node to trigger logic when receiving transactions and helps compose transactions for signing.</td></tr><tr><td>Cross Chain Mempool</td><td>Ensures deterministic transaction relaying, by using UTXO features (outputs).</td></tr><tr><td>BFT Consensus Layer</td><td>Orchestrates data flows between all connected chains by setting up a framework of possible interactions and roles or all participants.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### BFT Internal Components

<table><thead><tr><th width="310">Component</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Epoch</td><td>Determines validator selection for the next iteration, allowing BFT consensus to maintain a deterministic yet dynamic participant pool.</td></tr><tr><td>sMPC Group</td><td>A coordinated set of nodes that collectively produce threshold signatures and manage cross-chain operations while operating as either Validators (maintaining locks) or Witnesses (approving operations).</td></tr><tr><td>sMPC Paritipant</td><td>An individual node that holds key shares and participates in collective signing processes while monitoring network transactions for its assigned group.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Internal Interactions

| Component                                | Description                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| sMPC Participant <-> Node Interface      | Broadcasts Mirrored Transactions                                                                         |
| Node Interface <-> sMPC Group            | Receives transactions and composes Mirrored Transactions                                                 |
| Node Interface <-> Cross Chain Mempool   | Detects new transactions to be mirrored and ensures correctness of the process state                     |
| sMPC Group <-> Cross Chain Mempool       | Pushes prepared and signed Mirrored Transactions to be broadcasted to Bitcoin or Kaon's Consensus Layer. |
| sMPC Participant <-> Cross Chain Mempool | Broadcasts prepared Mirrored Transaction to Bitcoin or Kaon's Consensus Layer.                           |

### External Interactions

| Component                          | Description                                                                                                                      |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Node Interface <-> Bitcoin Node    | Receives newly confirmed transactions from Bitcoin Network and provides ability to broadcast transactions into Bitcoin Network.  |
| Node Interface <-> Consensus Layer | Receives newly confirmed transactions from Consensus Layer and provides ability to broadcast transactions into Consensus Layer.  |
| sMPC Group <-> sMPC Participant    | Produces an invoice addresses for peg-in transactions and sign Mirrored Transactions                                             |
| Consensus Layer <-> BFT Consensus  | Switches epochs and forms a list of participants for the next epoch, also resolves incidents and applies judgement via slashing. |

### Component Roles

| Component        | Role                                                                                    |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| State            | Cross Chain Mempool                                                                     |
| Observer         | Every sMPC Participant and any other Consensus Layer's node via Node Interface          |
| Signer           | Validators Group, sMPC Participant, Consensus Layer's validators for emergency preimage |
| Validator        | Witness Group                                                                           |
| Dispute Resolver | Consensus Layer                                                                         |
